# Working with S3 - Simple Storage Service

To be used in the AWS command line tools. These commands work in Mac/Linux or Windows

* S3 Operations
  * [Working with buckets using the web UI](#create-a-bucket-in-s3).
  * [Working with buckets using the CLI](#s3-commands-in-the-aws-command-line-tools).
  * [Using an S3 bucket as a static website](#create-a-public-html-website-in-amazon-s3).

- - -

## S3 - Simple Storage Service

### Create a Bucket in S3
1. Log into the **AWS Console** using the account you set up before the workshop.
2. From the SERVICES tab in the upper-left corner, select the **S3** service.
3. Click **Create Bucket**. Note that you are not charged for creating a bucket, only for storing objects in that bucket.
4. A dialogue box will open. Enter a unique **Bucket Name** in the box.
5. Accept the default region and click **Create**.

### Adding an Object to S3
6. In the Amazon S3 console, click on the name of the bucket that you just created.
7. Click **Upload**. The Upload wizard will appear.
8. Click **Add Files**, or you can simply drag and drop files into the wizard. You may also drag entire folders if you wish. For this example, try adding an image or PDF file.
9. If you add a file that you do not want to upload, click the `X` to the right of the file name to remove it.
10. Once you have selected the appropriate files and folders to upload, click either **Upload** to complete the process, or click **Next** if you want to modify any details for your file upload(s). For this example, select **Next**.
11. If you selected **Next**, one option is to manage permissions for public users. If, for example, you wanted to make an individual file available to the public, you would open the "Manage public permissions" section and select "Read" in the "Objects" column for the "Everyone" group. Do not modify any of the object permissions settings. Then click **Next** to advance.
12. The next set of options relates to other file properties, such as storage class and encryption. Review these options and then click **Next** again.
13. Finally, review your uploads on the last pane and select **Upload** when ready. You will be able to see the progress of your upload(s).

### View Object Details in S3
14. Within the bucket that you created earlier, find a file that you uploaded in the last step.
15. Select the file by checking the box to the left. A properties pane will appear on the right of your screen.
16. Note details about your file, such as size, owner, last write date, and the link to your file. Copy the link to your object.
17. In a new browser window or tab, paste the file link and try to view it. If successful, close your tab. If not, please talk to one of the instructors.

### Delete a file in S3
18. With your file still selected in the S3 Console, select the "More" menu. Note the options available to you.
19. Select "Delete" and confirm your choice.

- - -

### S3 commands in the AWS Command-Line Tools
20. Install the AWS CLI in your terminal. Visit https://aws.amazon.com/cli/ for more instructions for your platform.
21. Setup your AWS CLI by running `aws configure` in your terminal.
22. Follow the setup instructions, and paste in the AWS Key and AWS Secret Key from the top of this page. Enter `us-west-2` as your default region, and `JSON` as your preferred output type.
23. Each AWS service has a separate sub-command. To work with S3, use the `aws s3` sub-command. For example, to get help:

```bash
aws s3 help
```

24. List your buckets

```bash
aws s3 ls
```

25. Make another bucket

```bash
aws s3 mb s3://my-bucket
```

26. List the contents of a bucket

```bash
aws s3 ls s3://my-bucket/                     # Displays the base contents of a bucket
aws s3 ls s3://my-bucket/and-folder/          # Displays the contents of a subdir
aws s3 ls s3://my-bucket/and-folder/*.png     # Displays all PNG files in the subdir
```

27. Copy an object into S3

```bash
aws s3 cp my-local-file.zip s3://my-bucket/          # Copies a file into a bucket
aws s3 cp my-local-file.zip s3://my-bucket/subdir/   # Copies a file into a subdir of a bucket
aws s3 cp s3://my-bucket/file.zip ./                 # Copies a file from a bucket
```

28. Remove a file from S3

```bash
aws s3 rm s3://my-bucket/subdir/my-file.zip   # Removes the file (called a 'key') from S3
```

29. Synchronize a local folder with S3

```bash
aws s3 sync myfolder s3://my-bucket/myfolder/   # Syncs local folder's contents up to S3
aws s3 sync s3://my-bucket/myfolder/ myfolder   # Syncs remote S3 folder down to local folder
```

- - -

BONUS - Presign a S3 URL

If you have a file that is stored privately, you can "presign" it with an expiration time to share with others.

```
aws s3 presign --expires-in 60 s3://my-bucket/file.pdf   # Presigns a URL that expires in 60 seconds
```

Try the URL in your browser immediately after creating it, then try it after it should expire.

- - -

### Create a Public HTML Website in Amazon S3
30. Open the Amazon S3 console in your browser.
31. Click on the name of a bucket you created in earlier steps. This bucket will hold your public website.
32. You should see four panel options for your bucket: **Objects**, **Properties**, **Permissions**, and **Management**.
33. Select the **Permissions** panel for your bucket.
34. You are going to set a permissions policy for your bucket. This is a set of rules that will be applied to every object you upload to your bucket.
35. Select the **Bucket Policy** button near the top.
36. In the text editor area, paste the following code. Be sure to update **YOUR-BUCKET-NAME** with the actual name of your bucket. (Also, do not update the Version date, as it applies to the policy framework and not your actual policy itself.)

```json
{
  "Version":"2012-10-17",
  "Statement":[
    {
      "Sid":"AddPerm",
      "Effect":"Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action":["s3:GetObject"],
      "Resource":["arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/*"]
    }
  ]
}
```
Take a moment to review this JSON policy. Note that the one statement in it adds a permission, allowing any user (*) to get objects within a specific bucket, specified by a resource ARN. (ARN stands for Amazon Resource Name.)
Click **Save** to save the custom policy.

37. Next, go to the **Properties** pane for your bucket. Select the **Static website hosting** option.
38. Select the radio button indicating you want to use this bucket to host a website. Specify an index document (`index.html` is the usual index document for websites.) Then click **Save**.
39. Then select the **Objects** tab of your bucket. You will need to upload an `index.html` file now. Feel free to write one yourself if you know HTML, or [download one here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/uvasom-resources/courses/index.html) and then upload it to your bucket.
40. You have now created a bucket, dropped an `index.html` file into it, set the bucket policy to be publicly readable, and set the bucket to serve as a website. The last step is to visit your website! Return to your bucket's properties tab, and select the "Static Website Hosting" button again. At the top you will find an "Endpoint" address. This is the URL to your website. Click it.

### Conclusion

Congratulations! You have successfully done the following in S3:

* Logged into the AWS Console.
* Created a storage bucket.
* Uploaded a file to your bucket.
* Accessed details about that file.
* Adjust permissions for a file and make it publicly visible.
* Accessed the file via a web browser.
* Deleted a file from your bucket.
* Used the AWS CLI to perform some of the same functions from the command-line.
* Modified your bucket to serve as a static website.
* Set a bucket policy so that objects are visible to the public.
* Created an index.html bucket for your website.
* Visited your website and verified it works.

- - -
